Whenever I start working on a new project either a personal project toward professional one I really
like to sit down and identify some of the big problems that I anticipate that I'll run into as I'm working
on that project.
So I want to do that right now really quickly.
We're going to identify some of the more challenging aspects of this application and get an idea on
how to solve each one.
I've already gone through it and thought up some the big and challenging things that were probably going
to have to wrestle with as we build this out.
We're going to talk about some these big challenges and then go over some possible solutions to each
of them as well.
The first thing we need to think about is where we're going to actually get some information about different
movies.
I want to show real data inside of this application.
I don't want to just like make up movies or anything like that.
There's probably two obvious ways that we could handle getting some information about movies into our
application.
The first obvious way and this is probably not a good one would be to write in or hard code some information
about a bunch of different movies right into our JavaScript file so we could create a really big array
and write in some movies like maybe the hundred most popular movies out there directly into that array.
That's not really a good solution however because it means that any time that we wanted to add in more
movies we would have to make a change to the source code of our application in general.
That's not really a good thing to do.
So instead I think that we should attempt to fetch some data about movies inside of our javascript code.
When I say Fetch I mean let's make a network request to some outside API so we should try to find some
outside API or essentially a server that will give our application a list of movies that we can search
over or show details from the four that we're going to be making use of an API called the O M DV API.
This is a free API that we can use to get information about different movies.
I'm going to open up a new browser tab and navigate over there right away.
OK so you can read over the documentation here.
This API essentially exposes two different endpoints for us to use.
We scroll down a little bit we can see parameters right here and this will describe the different ways
that we can access movie information.
We can either search for movies that would be reading from this by search category right here or alternatively
we can look up very specific movies if we know the I.D. or the title of a movie.
These two operations match up with our application really really well.
Just think about it for a second.
If we go back over to our mockups over here there's really two different operations that are going on
around these movies inside of application.
The first distinct operation is when we do a search with the autocomplete.
So when the user types in there we need to essentially try to find movies that match a given search
term.
So that's really a searching operation.
We want to find a big list of different movies that match that particular term when a user finds the
appropriate movie and clicks on it.
We then want to fetch some additional information about that very particular movie right there and we're
going to take that additional information and show it on the screen.
So again it's really a two step operation.
We first are going to do a search and then we're going to do a very distinct look up.
Now you might be curious why we have to do both a search and a look up and not just a search by itself.
In other words if we're already doing a search for a bunch of movies and getting information about like
10 different movies as we are putting in results into that autocomplete Can't we just use that same
data that we just fetched to put on the screen.
Well as a quick side note here at the way that a lot of APIs work is to give different sets of data
depending on upon whether you're doing a listing action or a show action or trying to get information
about one record.
Let me tell you more about what I mean in this diagram I've got some imaginary search results from two
different operations on an API on the left hand side is the set of information that we might get back
if we do a search or a listing or what we refer to as an index operation.
So this is what we would see if we tried to get a list of different movies.
We might just get a very limited set of attributes about every movie.
Like just the I.D. of the movie and just the title.
So when we do an index or a search operation we very frequently don't get the full listing of information
about every individual record.
Instead if we want to get the full listing and we want to understand every attribute that a movie has
we usually end up having to do a follow up request where we say hey give me some details about the movie
with I.D. number one and then the API will probably respond with a full set of attributes.
Essentially everything that it knows about that particular movie a very easy way to understand this
is to just think about Google search results.
When you do a google search you don't see an entire web page.
Instead Google just shows you some high level attributes of every web page that it found is that excuse
me that finds that matches your query.
If you want to actually get some details about any given web page you actually have to click it and
so that would be like a selection or a show operation.
So it's going to be the exact same thing with the API we are using.
We're going to have to do initially a search to find some records that match the user search term and
then a follow up request to get information about the very particular movie that a user selected okay.
That's a big challenge number one.
Don't worry.
The other challenges are a little bit easier to understand so the second big thing that we're going
to have to do is to build an auto complete widget from scratch.
There's definitely some pre completed or pre-built widgets out there online that we could download and
use inside of our code.
However it would be a really good learning opportunity to put together our own autocomplete.
So I think we should do that inside of our project.
Now I don't really have a lot to say about this challenge until we really start tackling it and writing
code.
But I think that at least at a minimum you and I should really sit down and really agree on how an auto
complete Widget Works in general if we just tried to write out some autocomplete logic right away.
Well you and I might have really different ideas about how an auto complete works and even like you
personally you might have some idea about how an auto complete works and then you might start writing
some code and then realize that the code you're writing doesn't really match up with what you thought
personally about an auto complete.
So in other words I think that we really just need to sit down and say this is how an auto complete
Widget Works so we're going to do that in a separate video okay.
Last thing here the app would definitely look a lot better with styling and CSX like I mentioned the
starter kit that we're using has a CSX a little bit CSX written into it and it also makes use of a CSX
framework called Walmart CSX.
So this is stuff that has already been wired up for you.
We're going to have a quick discussion too about CSX as it pertains to this application in particular
we're going to take a little look at Velma CSX just really as a side topic.
Again this is of course about JavaScript.
Nonetheless you might be curious about it.
So we'll do a little quick aside just to understand what's happening with this thing okay.
So that's it.
That's our big challenges.
So let's take a pause right here now that we have a better idea of what we're trying to build.
We've identified some of the hard things about this project.
We're gonna get started writing code in the next video.
Two quick pause and I'll see you in just a minute.